Print quality
=============

LightZone has high quality color management built-in; however, print
quality depends largely on the printer, the printer driver software, and
any color management in use.

To achieve the best print quality, make sure that you understand and
properly use the settings in the printer driver. Incorrect settings can
and most likely will result in lower print quality. Pay extra attention
to the choice of letting LightZone or the printer driver do the color
conversion.

If the printer driver has a setting for no color conversion (typically
labeled "Color Managed by Application" or "No Color Adjustments") then
you have a choice of either letting LightZone or the printer driver do
the conversion.

-   To let LightZone do the color conversion, select the printer
    profile, [rendering intent](Rendering_Intent.html), and [black point
    compensation](Black_Point_Compensation.html) settings in the Print
    Preview dialog. Then, in the printer preferences dialog, set the
    printer driver to do no color conversion.
-   To let the printer driver do the color conversion, select "Color
    Managed by Printer Driver" in LightZone, then set the appropriate
    color settings in the printer preferences dialog.

It is important to note that, for most printers, there isn't one setting
that will always give the best results. You might encounter some color
photos that print very well on your printer using certain settings or a
certain color profile, and others that just won't print well. If that is
the case, try different settings altogether. If your photo does not
print well using a custom ICC profile for your printer, try using the
standard or vivid settings in your printer driver instead.

For black-and-white printing, most inkjet printers manufactured before
2005 have been inferior in terms of linearity, neutrality and metamerism
failure. (Metamerism refers to the situation where two color samples
appear to match under one condition but not under another.) However, the
latest generation from all the major inkjet printer manufacturers looks
promising.
