Thumbnails
==========

![image](images/Thumbnails-unstacked.jpg) Along the bottom of the
browser window are the thumbnails for all the supported image file
formats in the folder selected in the [Folder
Navigator](Navigating_Folders.html).

Using thumbnails, you can select a photo to [view it
larger](Photo_Viewer.html), [inspect its metadata](Metadata.html),
[rotate it](Photos-Rotating.html), [rate it](Photos-Rating.html), [edit
it](Photos-Editing.html), [convert it](Converting.html), [send
it](Photos-Sending.html), [print it](Printing.html), [copy & paste its
tools](Tools-Copy_and_Paste.html), [apply a style to
it](Styles-Applying.html), [drag & drop
it](Photos-Dragging_and_Dropping.html), or
[rename](Photos-Renaming.html) or [delete](Photos-Deleting.html) the
image file.

The **selected thumbnail** is shown with a white border and a large
preview is shown in the [Photo Viewer](Photo_Viewer.html). You can
change the selection by clicking a different thumbnail or by using the
**arrow keys**. If you hold the **shift** key while clicking, at most 5
previews are shown side-by-side.

![image](images/Button-Select_Recent.png) You can select only the most
recent versions of your photos by clicking the **select recent** button.

You can scroll the thumbnails by using the scroll bar or the
**page-up/down**, **home**, or **end** keys.

Each photo's [rating](Photos-Rating.html) (if any) is shown in the
lower-left corner of its thumbnail. Each photo's type is shown in the
lower-right corner of its thumbnail.

![image](images/Button-Stack.png) After you [save your edited
photos](Saving.html), thumbnails of both your original and edited photos
are shown grouped together. Alternatively, by clicking the Stack button,
thumbnails of your photos can be shown stacked where only the latest
edited version of your photo is shown. The number of photos in the stack
is indicated by a number in the upper-left corner of the thumbnail.

  ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  (a) unstacked                               (b) stacked
  ![image](images/Thumbnails-unstacked.jpg)   ![image](images/Thumbnails-stacked.jpg)
  ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

The **Thumbnail size** slider controls the size of the thumbnails shown
in the browser. (It does not alter any thumbnails that may be embedded
inside the image files.)

The **Sort order** button controls whether your photos are sorted either
in ascending or descending order for the current sort criteria.

The **Sort criteria** pop-up menu allows you to change the order by
which the thumbnails for your photos are displayed. The choices for sort
criteria are: file name, file type, image size, capture time,
modification time, [rating](Photos-Rating.html), aperture, focal length,
lens, and shutter speed.
