Editing tools overview
======================

Along the top-right of the LightZone editor window is a toolbar
containing the set of editing tools shown below.

![image](images/Tools-Editing-en.png)

The **ZoneMapper** tool allows you to adjust the brightness and contrast
of your entire photo or any combination of the highlights, midtones, or
shadows. [More on the ZoneMapper...](Tool-ZoneMapper.html)

The **Relight** tool does this by reducing the large scale contrast and,
at the same time, increasing the local contrast. This mimics the
behavior of the human visual system and makes your photo more appealing
and easier to work with. [More on the relighting...](Tool-Relight.html)

The **Sharpen** tool allows you to sharpen all or parts of your photo
using a technique based on the tradition of using an unsharp mask in a
darkroom to increase the perception of sharpness by emphasizing edges.
[More on sharpening...](Tool-Sharpen.html)

The **Blur** tool allows you to blur all or parts of your photo by a
specified radius. This can be used to soften grainy or blemished areas,
or to create out-of-focus areas. [More on blurring...](Tool-Blur.html)

The **Hue/Saturation** tool allows you to make color adjustments in hue,
saturation, or luminance. [More on
hue/saturation...](Tool-Hue_Saturation.html)

The **Color Balance** tool allows you to adjust the color balance around
a specified point of the tonal range or reduce color casts by selecting
neutral gray points. [More on color balance...](Tool-Color_Balance.html)

The **White Balance** tool allows you to adjust the white balance of
your photo to compensate for a color cast in the light source such as
the blue cast of the sky or tungsten lighting. [More on white
balance...](Tool-White_Balance.html)

The **Black & White** tool allows you to convert your color photo into a
black-and-white photo and can control the conversion as if a colored
filter were placed in front of the lens when the photo was taken. [More
on black & white conversion...](Tool-Black_and_White.html)

The **Noise Reduction** tool allows you to reduce "noise" that is often
present in digital photos as a result of the sensors in digital cameras.
The tool reduces noise in either chromaticity or luminance (or both).
[More on noise reduction...](Tool-Noise_Reduction.html)

The **Clone** tool allows you to copy one area of your photo to another
area. This can be used to remove dust, scratches, blemishes, or other
unwanted items from your photo. [More on cloning...](Tool-Clone.html)

The **Spot** tool allows you to remove dust, scratches, blemishes, or
other unwanted items from your photo. [More on spot
removal...](Tool-Clone.html)

The **Red-Eye** tool allows you reduce "red-eye" that sometimes occurs
in photos shot using a flash. [More on red-eye
reduction...](Tool-Red-Eye.html)

### See also:

-   [Control tools](Tools-Controls.html)
-   [Editor anatomy](Anatomy-Editor.html)
-   [Tool anatomy](Tool_Anatomy.html)

