Tool anatomy
============

[1 of 2](Tool_Anatomy-Menu.html)

While all LightZone tools perform their own unique operation, almost all
share common controls.

Title bar

![image](images/Tool_Anatomy-en.png) The **Title bar** of the selected
tool is orange. To collapse and subsequently expand a tool, click the
triangle on the left. To change the ordering of a tool in the [tool
stack](Tool_Stack.html), drag it by its title bar.

If the **Regions** icon is present, it means that the tool has at least
one [region](Regions.html).

The **Label** contains the name of the tool by default. You can edit the
label by double-clicking it to give it a descriptive name, for example
"Face" or "Foreground rocks".

The **Help** button opens a window that gives help for the tool.

The **Enable/Disable** checkbox enables or disables the effect of the
tool. This includes when [converting](Converting.html) and
[printing](Printing.html).

The **Delete** button deletes the tool from the [tool
stack](Tool_Stack.html).

A **Menu** can be popped-up by control-clicking right-clicking in any
blank space in the title bar. [More about the
menu...](Tool_Anatomy-Menu.html)

Locked tools

![image](images/Tool-Disabled-en.png) If a tool is locked, a lock icon
replaces the Delete button. To lock a tool, select Lock from the pop-up
[menu](Tool_Anatomy-Menu.html). Once locked, you can also click the lock
icon to pop-up the menu.

A locked tool's settings can not be modified. Additionally, a locked
tool can not have [regions](Regions.html) added to or deleted from it,
nor can they be selected or edited.

Tool settings

![image](images/Tool_Tab-Tool_Settings-en.png) The **Tool Settings** tab
contains various controls that affect *how* the tool is applied to your
photo.

The **Blending Mode** pop-up menu allows you to select how the tool's
effect is blended with previous tools in the [tool
stack](Tool_Stack.html). [More on blending modes...](Blend_Modes.html)

The **Opacity** slider allows you to control how strongly the [blending
mode](Blend_Modes.html) is applied to your photo. At 0%, the tool has no
effect; at 100%, the tool has full effect.

The **Invert mask** check-box inverts the tool's effect to be outside
all of the [regions of the mask](Regions.html) for that tool rather than
the default of inside. [More on inverting
masks...](Regions-Inverting.html)

Color selection

![image](images/Tool_Tab-Color_Selection-en.png) The **Color Selection**
tab contains various controls that allow you select the colors (and
luminosities) to which the affect of the tool is applied.

You can use the **Eyedropper** to select a color directly from your
photo.

When checked, the **Enable hue** checkbox restricts the tool's effect to
the selected hue range; when unchecked, all hues (for the currently
selected luminosity range) are selected.

When checked, the **Enable luminosity** checkbox restricts the tool's
effect to the selected luminosity range; when unchecked, all
luminosities (for the currently selected hue range) are selected.

The currently **Selected Color** is shown by the color swatch.

The **Color Preset** radio buttons allow you to select all red, yellow,
green, blue, indigo, or violet hues directly.

The **Range** slider increases or decreases the range of colors selected
around the color shown by the color swatch.

The **Luminosity range** slider controls which parts of the luminosity
range are selected. The control has two sliders: one each for the lower
and upper bounds of the luminosity range. Additionally, each slider
splits in two that allows you to control the **luminosity feathering**.

[More on color/luminosity selection...](Color_Luminosity_Selection.html)

### See also:

-   [Editing tools](Tools-Editing.html)

